HOW GREED FOR A TRIFLING THING LED A MAN TO LOSE A GREAT ONE


Once upon a time there was an old woman, who had two sons. But her
older son did not love his parents, and left his mother and brother.
The younger one served her so faithfully, however, that all the people
spoke of his filial affection.

One day it happened that there was a theatrical performance given
outside the village. The younger son started to carry his mother there
on his back, so that she might look on. But there was a ravine before
the village, and he slipped and fell down in the middle of it. And his
mother was killed by the rolling stones, and her blood and flesh were
sprinkled about everywhere. The son stroked his mother's corpse, and
wept bitterly. He was about to kill himself when, suddenly, he saw a
priest standing before him.

The latter said: "Have no fear, for I can bring your mother back to
life again!" And as he said so, he stooped, gathered up her flesh and
bones, and laid them together as they should be. Then he breathed upon
them, and at once the mother was alive again. This made the son very
happy, and he thanked the priest on his knees. Yet on a sharp point of
rock he still saw a bit of his mother's flesh hanging, a bit about an
inch long.

"That should not be left hanging there either," said he, and hid it in
his breast.

"In truth, you love your mother as a son should," said the priest.
Then he bade the son give him the bit of flesh, kneaded a manikin out
of it, breathed upon it, and in a minute there it stood, a really
fine-looking little boy.

"His name is Small Profit," said he, turning to the son, "and you may
call him brother. You are poor and have not the wherewithal with which
to nourish your mother. If you need something, Small Profit can get it
for you."

The son thanked him once more, then took his mother on his back again,
and his new little brother by the hand, and went home. And when he
said to Small Profit: "Bring meat and wine!" then meat and wine were
at hand at once, and steaming rice was already cooking in the pot. And
when he said to Small Profit: "Bring money and cloth!" then his purse
filled itself with money, and the chests were heaped up with cloth to
the brim. Whatever he asked for that he received. Thus, in the course
of time, they came to be very well off indeed.

But his older brother envied him greatly. And when there was another
theatrical performance in the village, he took his mother on his
back--by force--and went to it. And when he reached the ravine, he
slipped purposely, and let his mother fall into the depths, only
intent to see that she really was shattered into fragments. And sure
enough his mother had such a bad fall that her limbs and trunk were
strewn around in all directions. He then climbed down, took his
mother's head in his hands, and pretended to weep.

And at once the priest was on hand again, and said: "I can wake the
dead to life again, and surround white bones with flesh and blood!"

Then he did as he had done before, and the mother came to life again.
But the older brother already had hidden one of her ribs on purpose.
He now pulled it out and said to the priest: "Here is a bone left.
What shall I do with it?"

The priest took the bone, enclosed it in lime and earth, breathed upon
it, as he had done the other time, and it became a little man,
resembling Small Profit, but larger in stature.

"His name is Great Duty," he told his older brother, "if you stick to
him he will always lend you a hand."

The son took his mother back again, and Great Duty walked beside him.

When he came to their courtyard door, he saw his younger brother
coming out, holding Small Profit in his arms.

"Where are you going?" he said to him.

His brother answered: "Small Profit is a divine being, who does not
wish to dwell for all time among men. He wants to fly back to the
heavens, and so I am escorting him."

"Give Small Profit to me! Don't let him get away!" cried the older
brother.

Yet, before he had ended his speech, Small Profit was rising in the
air. The older brother then quickly let his mother drop on the ground,
and stretched out his hand to catch Small Profit. But he did not
succeed, and now Great Duty, too, rose from the ground, took Small
Profit's hand, and together they ascended to the clouds and
disappeared.

Then the older brother stamped on the ground, and said with a sigh:
"Alas, I have lost my Great Duty because I was too greedy for that
Small Profit!"

    Note: In China--usually on festive days or because of
    some religious celebration--a provisional stage is
    erected before the village or temple, and a play given.
    Permanent theaters are to be found only in the large
    cities.
